




Hackers breach Anthropic's 'too dangerous to release' Mythos AI model, report | Euronews

[META description=Hackers have gained access to Anthropic's Mythos, an AI the company considers too cybersecurity-sensitive to release publicly.]

[META article:published_time=2026-04-22 11:20:48 +02:00]

[META article:author=Pascale Davies]

[META og:title=Unauthorised users hack Anthropic's 'too dangerous to release' AI ]

[META og:description=Hackers have gained access to Anthropic's Mythos, an AI the company considers too cybersecurity-sensitive to release publicly.]




































































































































Advertisement







































By Pascale Davies



Published on 22/04/2026 - 11:20 GMT+2•Updated
24/04/2026 - 14:33 GMT+2








Share




Comments









Share











Facebook








Twitter








Flipboard








Send








Reddit








Linkedin








Messenger








Telegram








VK








Bluesky








Threads








Whatsapp

















Hackers have gained access to Anthropic's Mythos, an AI the company considers too cybersecurity-sensitive to release publicly.







A group of unauthorised users reportedly gained access to Anthropic’s new product, which the artificial intelligence company says is too powerful to release to the public as it "poses unprecedented cybersecurity risks".








ADVERTISEMENT










ADVERTISEMENT



Anthropic’s new AI technology, Mythos, is designed for enterprise security and is being tested by a few technology and cybersecurity firms.

A “private online forum” has managed to gain access to Mythos through a third-party vendor, according to Bloomberg. 

"We’re investigating a report claiming unauthorised access to Claude Mythos Preview through one of our third-party vendor environments," an Anthropic spokesperson told Euronews Next. 

There is currently no evidence that Anthropic's systems are impacted, nor that the reported activity extended beyond the third-party vendor environment, the company added. 

Members of the unauthorised group are part of a Discord channel that seeks out information about unreleased AI models, Bloomberg reported. 



Related



What is Anthropic's Mythos? The leaked AI model that poses 'unprecedented' cybersecurity risks'


Citing a person employed by a third-party contractor that works for Anthropic, Bloomberg added that the group tried several strategies to gain access to the model.

The outlet also reported that the unauthorised group had been regularly using Mythos once it gained access. 

Anthropic said it would limit the release of its new AI model to a few tech and cybersecurity firms as part of its so-called Project Glasswing. The list includes Amazon, Apple and JP Morgan Chase.

Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley are reportedly testing the Anthropic model too, according to reports. 

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent convened a meeting of senior American bankers in Washington in April to discuss the Mythos model. The meeting encouraged the banking executive to use Antropic’s Mythos model to detect vulnerabilities, according to Bloomberg.

Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley are reportedly testing the Anthropic model too, according to reports.

This story was updated with comment from Anthropic. 



Go to accessibility shortcuts






Share




Comments







Read more

















Tech News




Meta to track employee activity such as clicks to train its AI, report



















Tech News




This Chinese robot just beat the human half-marathon world record


















Tech News




Google employees urge CEO to reject classified military AI use














Artificial intelligence






Technology






cyber security












































































